---
layout: post
title: Week 4
fullview: true
---

1. __What did you do this past week?__
  * This week I started working on Project 2 with my partner. We are still trying to figure some things out, but I am pretty sure we are very close to getting the algorithm workings.

2. __What's in your way?__
  * My partner and I had several issues with Travis. The first one was that our makefile was wrong. Thankfully, I realized our mistake and I changed it and added the correct files to both the makefile and repo. Another obstacle I encountered was trying to download the pickle files. It took me a little bit of time to understand how to get to Downing’s directory to copy the cache files to my directory. In addition to this, my partner and I spent most of our day trying to figure out what the pickle files were doing and how to use them. I am still not 100% sure if we need to make more mathematical calculations to get a good approximation of the rating. 

3. __What will you do next week?__
  * Next week my partner and I plan to finish the project because we want to go to career fair and we have tests.


---
__Class Experience:__
On Wednesday we had a guest speaker. Not only was it interesting hearing about the a former UT Longhorn work experience, but also not having class. I found the talk to be a bit intimidating, yet informative. I thought it was intimidating because I feel like internships are way different than a full-time job. He also mentioned they use the most recent technologies to work on a project, I do not think I have ever used as many as he has in all the time he has been working. At the end of the talk, I discovered what were some of the things I need to do to be a better candidate for a job. 

__Tip of the Week__
A new software is helping pathologists in identifying lung cancer type and severity. Improving the current manual analysis of tissue samples done by specialists, and allowing a more accurate tumor classification, diagnosis and treatment.
The machinery-learning process has helped researchers at the Stanford University School of Medicine, to identify abnormal cells and features faster than the conventional way by using a national database called the Cancer Genome Atlas. Since the database contains information of different cancer stages and how long the patient lived, this knowledge has helped doctors to determine the proper treatment as they  can decide how aggressively to treat the disease, and even predict patient survival. 
The computer software program is capable of identifying “many more cancer-specific characteristics than can be detected by the human eye -- nearly 10,000 individual traits, versus the several hundred usually assessed by pathologists. These characteristics included not just cell size and shape, but also the shape and texture of the cells' nuclei and the spatial relations among neighboring tumor cells.”
This study supported by the National Cancer Institute “brings cancer pathology into the 21st century” and will help the cancer researchers to understand the DNA mutations and the gene that lead to disease. This work is an excellent example of precision health by anticipating and preventing lung cancer, and precisely diagnose and treat the disease.  

https://www.sciencedaily.com/news/computers_math/software/
