---
layout:post
title: Week 5
fullview: true
---

1. __What did you do this past week?__
  * I worked on the Netflix project. It was a rather interesting assignment. 
    * For this assignment we were allowed to work with a partner. I really do enjoy working with other people because we can share ideas. When working with someone else, several things should be considered. For instance, both programmers should contribute, provide feedback, and communicate efficiently. The latter one, I believe, is crucial since it determines whether a project will be successful or not. If there is not a good communication, one must try a different strategy and really try to make things work with your partner. Sometimes having a mediator can help solve this problem. 
  
2. __What's in your way?__
  * There were several things that were in my way. One of them was trying to understand the caches provided by my classmates. I was not sure how to use them because I thought I had to look at the code to understand how to use them, when in reality, all I had to do was use them as my classmates had instructed. To achieve this, I created several examples that helped me get started on the assignment.


3. __What will you do next week?__
  * I am planning on studying for the midterm. I want to do my best since I want to stay in the class. 

---
__Class Experience:__

__Tip of the Week:__

FIND is a new software developed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate’s (S&T) First Responders Group (FRG); and it helps to find people based on “lost person behaviors” that are determined according to statistics of decisions and patterns that have been made by prior missing individuals.
Robert Koester, CEO of dbS Productions said “It is no longer enough to have the latest and greatest device or hardware.” “the most essential need for search and rescue is the ability to bring everything together so the first responders on-scene can make practical decisions.”
The new Lost Person Locator (LPL) helps to gather volunteers, map resources and team allocations, determines task descriptions and allows an effective communication among the rescue teams in the field as this information can be transmitted vey quickly. This tool integrates “hardware and software to provide intelligent analysis and actionable information". Other useful data included is the health status, age, experience and access to survival gear of the lost individual. FIND does not depend on internet connectivity as all the information is integrated in the application as well as the pre-package mapping. 
Now in its final development phase, FIND is an extremely useful tool to locate individuals that get lost during the holidays, improving the search time and the possibilities of a positive outcome.
