---
layout: post
title: Week 1
fullview: true
---

1. What did you do this past week?
  *We went over the syllabus and class expectations. Professor Downing introduced us to new software development tools. 

2. What's in your way?
  *A quiz we had on Friday.

3. What will you do next week?
  *Next will I will try to clone the class repo, install Docker, and hopefully get a head start on the assignment. 

Class Experience:
The first day of class was on Wednesday and I was quite nervous since I have heard so many things about this class and have wanted to take it since the summer of my freshmen year. When I got to class, Professor Downing talked about and explained the different tool we were going to use in this class. Next, he described in detail the class syllabus and what we had to do to be successful. We then proceeded to analyze a piece of Python code and he started calling on people. Despite the fact that I already know some Python, I completely blanked out when he started calling out people’s names and I prayed he wouldn't call out my name. Luckily, he didn’t. I guess I am more comfortable expressing my knowledge, and the lack of it, in private. 

On Friday, we had a quiz. I was a little bit shocked since classes had started two days ago. To prepare for the quiz, I looked over the functionalities of the tools that stood out for me. For instance, autopep8 helps with auto-formatting, coverage provides a detailed report of the amount of Python code executed. In addition to the other tools listed on the class website, I read about Docker. Docker is a software that uses containers which allow developers to create and run applications. I found out that this software acts like a VM (Virtual Machine), however, "it allows applications to use the same Linux kernel as the system that they were running on”. When the quiz started, I wished I had payed more attention to what I read and in class. After the quiz, we looked at some Python code. I learned that assertions are not good for testing code because they might not run all the test cases. 

Like all my classes this semester, we have assigned readings. As I was reading the first chapter of Extreme Programming, I found a list of “rights”, rather responsibilities, I have as a developer. I feel like if you fail to do either of them, you are doomed. I am not sure what else I will learn next week, but whatever it may be…challenge accepted!

<b>Tip of the Week</b>
I really suggest starting the projects early. It is rather easy to slack off or procrastinate the first week of school because it always seems to that there is plenty of free time. Also, make sure to ask for help installing the required tools.
