---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

1. __What did you do this past week?__
  * This week we learned about iterators, iterables, and generators. I feel like this is a topic a lot of people struggle with so I want to explain what they are and what they do. An iterable is any object you can iterate through and when there isn't a next element, it tells us it's done. An iterator is an object that will return the next value when the program calls next() on it. Therefore, we can conclude that an object that has next() is an iterator. A generator is a way of creating iterators by using a function. Generators uses the yield keyword, which saves its internal state and resumes when next() is called again. Also, a generator is an iterator but an iterator is not a generator :) 
  
2. __What's in your way?__
  * I have an algorithms tests next week and an essay due the same day I have my test. I am very nervous since I need to pass all my tests in order to graduate. It is hard to equally divide my time to study for my tests and do homework for all my classes. I often wonder when this is all going to end.  


3. __What will you do next week?__
  * I am going to probably pull my third all-nighter of the semester. I am determined to pass all my classes. 

---
__Class Experience:__

I have realized I still don't feel comfortable when Prof. Downing calls on me. I get so nervous that I want to turn into an ant. Something I found quite funny was that this week a guy said he didn't know how to answer the question he was asked because he was not paying attention and a different person said he had guessed the right answer on the quiz but was not sure why that was the right answer. 
I also don't know who to better prepare for the quizzes. I feel like I understand the material, but when I'm taking the quiz I get the wrong answers. 

__Tip of the Week:__

Researchers from Bournemouth University (BU) developed a new software technique that uncovered a third hominin’s set of footprints in the oldest human footprint site in Tanzania. The Laetoli tracks were discovered in 1976 and they are estimated to be 3.6 million years old. It was believed it showed only two parallel trackways of an early form of human, but with the new software they discovered that a third person followed the same path of one of the original tracks. Since the third set obscured one of the trackways, scientist concentrated only in the undisturbed set of footprints. Thanks to the new technology, similar to the one used in crime scenes investigations, they have been able to discover new information as the height, weight, and walking speed of the individuals. "Footprints contain information about the way our ancestors moved," explains Professor Bennett. For the first time the shape of the footprints left by this third track-maker were revealed by the Natural Environments Research Council (NERC) software which allowed to separate the merged tracks, to capture them in three dimensions and digitally analyzed them. This technology has not only double the existing palaeo-anthropological information, but it can also help in old and current crime investigations by studying, preserve and shared evidence in a more accurate, easy  and timely manner. 
https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/04/160426092130.htm

