---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

__1. What did you do this past week?__
	* This week we talked about Collatz, which is a rather fascinating math conjecture. It says that we are given a positive integer n  and we can perform two operations. 
	
 	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  a. If the integer is even then we divide n by 2 until we get a quotient of 1.
	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  b. If n is odd, then we must do 3 *n + 1. If the new number is even, then we go back to a. Else, we keep repeating b until we get an even number.
	* What’s interesting about this problem is that no matter what number we get, we will always end up getting 1 as our final number. 
	* Another thing I did this week was install Docker.
__2. What's in your way?__
	* It has been a while since I have programmed anything using Python. As it is a normal for humans to forget when they do not practice something regularly, I was not able to remember how to use decorators and generator nor even explain the importance of `yield`. 
__3. What will you do next week?__
	* I need to finish the first assignemt, so that is what I will be doing.


---
__Class Experience__
This week was better than what I had  excepted it to be :)
Professor Downing called on my name and asked me some questions. I was able to answer them correctly and I was very pleased and comfortable with myself (if you read my post for Week 1, you know how much I dreaded to speak out loud in class). 
Besides conquering my fears, I learned that it is important to estimate how much time a developer will spend on certain parts of the project. When a client goes to a developer, they must discuss the project and the developer must tell the client how long it will take the team to accomplish such task. For Project 1, we are to do the same. I expected to finish the project in 5-10 hrs. However, it has taken me longer. I wonder if it is because I am too stressed out about my other classes. 


---
__Tip of the Week__
Like any other milenial and person who owns a computer, I was <del> wasting </del> spending my time very wisely on Facebook. 

