---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

__1. What did you do this past week?__

* Last week I worked on the Collatz conjecture project. I started working on it on Saturday, September 3rd and I finished it on Friday of the following week. I woke up every morning and work on the assignment all day, even during my other classes. 
In class we learned about Python data structures and their functionalities. I enjoyed going over memory and pointers because I used to struggle (a lot) with that topic when I was first learning how to program.


__2. What's in your way?__

* The project was in my way. Despite its simplicity, I seemed to have great difficulty using docker, Github, and caches. My biggest challenge was implementing the cache. I honestly do not recall implementing a cache in any of my computer science classes. I believe that most of my C.S. classes were rather easy and not demanding at all so none of them required me to do a lot of "hard" work". Going back to my cache problem, I realized I had the right idea about how to approach my problem after watching several YouTube videos to learn about them. My cache implementation went something like this: I created a dictionary that held a certain amount of numbers and my program would check if the value existed in my cache. As I was running my test cases, I got a KeyValue error which meant that I got a number greater than the one I could hold in my cache. So I had to go back and change my code so that even if it encountered a number that was bigger than the cache, it would still compute the operations for Collatz. Another problem I encountered with the cache was placing my variables and if/else statements in the correct order. Once I figured it out, I tested my solution on Sphere. Getting your code to pass on Sphere is one of the greatest feelings ever. It made me feel like I was worthy of calling myself a programmer and happy that brain worked really hard to get a working solution. 


__3. What will you do next week?__

* Not collatz! That's for sure. I will go over Prof. Downing's examples and create some of my own just to do better on the quizzes.
I also want to practice more coding questions and I believe Sphere is a great place for that.


---
__Class Experience__


This week was not what I expected it to be. I submitted my project late and I had trouble with an easy concept. Though at times I was disappointed on myself, I cut myself some slack because I finished it and corrected my mistakes. So yes, I struggled a lot but I learned. I think that's what really matters, that I didn't give up.


---
__Tip of the Week__


A new software to help children with congenital heart defects has been developed by Europe’s largest application-oriented research organization Fraunhofer-Gesellscgaft.

In the past multiple tests and surgeries have been needed to help children with congenital heart defects, and the cost and suffering for the patient and family can be tremendous and exhausting. These children frequently need a percutaneous pulmonary valve which is inserted whey they are ten to 15 years old. With the computer simulations doctors and family can determine which surgery has a higher probability of success and even if the valve will fit the patient’s heart. In order to achieve this the computer simulation is based on MRI images of a patient’s heart that shows the shape of the blood vessels and flow to determine the before and after vascular compression. The results  show precise forecasts of blood flow and pressure. "Our algorithms can detect which blood pressure conditions are found in the vessels," according to Dr. Anja Hennemuth. 
These simulations reduce the anxiety of all the parties involved, and reduces not only the possible complications and follow up treatments, but the medical costs up to ten percent.
https://www.sciencedaily.com/news/computers_math/software/
