---
layout: post
title: Week 7
fullview: true
---

1. __What did you do this past week?__
  * This week I had two midterms. One of them was for my algorithms class and the other one was for this class.  

2. __What's in your way?__
  * Not having more time. I think having two important tests and essays due on the same day is not an easy thing. I ended up studying more for algorithms than I did for this test. I felt very confident about my software engeneering test because I thought I "knew" python. I do think the test was fair, but I was not prepared to write the kind of generators that were on it. All I can do now is practice more and become better programmer :)

3. __What will you do next week?__
  * I am working on project three and studying for my third midterm of the semester. 


---
__Class Experience:__


I really want to encourage people who want to take the class to invest time on it. The class is actually challenging but it is very rewarding. I think it is a great idea to implement some things from the Python library. It gives you a sense for how things work and it might help on the test ;)

__Tip of the Week:__


A new software developed by the University of Warwick is allowing companies to double the number of cars that are stored in shipping containers, making the transportation more efficient. This innovative software produces a report with all conceivable combinations depending on the cars, makes and models selected by the users, so they can be stored in the most effective way.
Using this method, cars can be transported safely, reducing possible damages that occurs during the process of a vehicle entering the site, being moved around or unloaded that cost a lot of money to the companies making losses due to damaged or lost parts, a thing of the past. In order to make this possible, the software operates a car racking system manufactured by Trans-Rak International (TRI) that has removable, metal components that form a variable-dimension frame, which allows a car to be lifted up inside the container while a second car is placed below the lifted car, transforming the manual-based process previously used. "Paul Donaldson, Managing Director of Trans-Rak International, commented &quot;the software
developed by Piero Filippin will enable users to deploy our equipment more efficiently, futher
reducing the number of containers that need to be moved for a given number of vehicles."
This is a great example of how digital technologies has improved manufacturing and vehicle transportation, reducing not only costs, but saving resources and time that at the end of the day benefits the customer.

https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/08/160825084943.htm
