---
layout: post
title: Week 9
fullview: true
---
1. __What did you do this past week?__
  * This week I learned about relational algebra and their usage. I think they are mostly used for database analysis. I have noticed that Professor Downing makes us implement a lot of the functions Python has in its library. Do I like this? I guess I do. It helps me fully understand how Python works and write beautiful code. 


2.__What's in your way?__
  * My team and I thought we had to write another website’s API. We were a bit anxious since none of the websites we had found had an API. After talking to him, he explained had to create our own API. This lifted a weight from our shoulders. However, we somehow need to find a website that does have one or we will get points off :/ 

3.__What will you do next week?__
  * My group and I had already planned on meeting on Monday to talk about project 4 and assign different activities to people. I am sure phase 4 will be hard but I got a great team so we will be successful 


---
__Class Experience:__


This class is so stressful, hahaha. It is true, but I like it. I have learned so many new things. So far, my favorite thing has been working on project 3. My team and I did a great job and we all get along. On my last post, I said I was team leader for this specific project. I used to believe that a team leader had to be very knowledgable on every topic, but that's not true. I relearned HTML, learned data scrappings, what models are, and how to write an API. I also asked my peers for help when I got stuck on a problem and I didnt feel ashemed for doing so. To be a team leader you need to be able to communicate efficiently, make sure the working enviroment is enjoyable and that no one is left out. 

__Tip of the Week:__


Apiary is a tool used as a blue print to describe the functionalities of your website.  According to an automated email I got from Apiary, “someone can write an API in 30 minutes, share it with [his] teammates or customers, and let them take [his] API for a spin with just the API mock – All without writing any code.” Sounds pretty neat, doesn't it? That’s because it  is. It takes less than 15 minutes to understand how to use it and start creating an API. A nice feature is that the editor has a preview which immediately shows any changes you have made and what the API will look like at the end.
