---
layout: post
title: Week 8
fullview: true
---
1. __What did you do this past week?__
  * Last we did a little bit of everything. We learned about decorators and we also got into groups for the last 3 projects. Something that is pretty neat about decorators is that they have the ability of extend the properties of another function. So if I type @my_decorator before function foo, then foo will be decorated and be used in my_decorator function. Classes can be decorated too! We looked at some pretty interesting examples in class and I was just amazed by all the tricks you can do with different programming languages. Furthermore, we talked about static and non-static methods. I learned that if I wanted to access the elements from a non-static method, we must have an instance of the object we want to invoke; however, if we invoke an element from a static method we can do it without having an instance of the object. The last thing I learned was that if a variable, v, is not in a class, A,  and you write an instance of it (A.v), Python will automatically create that variable in the class. Several people I talked to about this did not seem to like it as much as I did. I might be biased, but I think Python is a beautiful programming language with really cool things. One of my favorite tricks is switching two numbers without a third variable. This can be done by doing x, y = y, x. How great is that?
Moving on to the teams for project 3, I think I got a pretty great team. I am really excited about this project because I am going to work on something new and because I am team leader! I hope I am doing a good job because I do not want to disappoint them.

2.__What's in your way?__
  * For project 3, I am working on backend. I have no previous experience on this but it did not stop me from accomplishing my goals. I had to do some data scraping and I was able to pull the information I needed. To be honest, I am proud of myself. 

3.__What will you do next week?__
  * Next week I am going to finish working on my part of the project and ask for help from my team if I need it. I really want us to finish before Thursday because I need to prepare for an interview I have on Friday and the following week.


---
__Class Experience:__


When you are a team leader, it is important to know what the strengths and weaknesses of your team are. As I mentioned before, I am the team leader for project 3 and this is valuable information. It helped me divide my team into groups and have a sense of what task each of us should do. So far 3 people will be working on front-end and 3 of us on back-end. Having people with different backgrounds, ideas, and knowledge is also great. My teammate Shu is very knowledgable with back-end while Shali is good at front-end. I, on the other hand, do not know much about either, but this doesn’t meant I can’t learn how to do it. I spent all day Friday and Saturday learning about back-end and I believe I made a lot of progress.

__Tip of the Week:__


I know I have been talking a lot about this project, but I’ll continue elaborating on it. I learned how to do data scraping. At the beginning I thought “Data what?,” but it’s actually something pretty cool. Our focus is on Greek mythology and we noticed that the majority of the websites barcoded all the information and did not have an API, so we have to do our own. Because we have to create our own database, we need to get the information from the HTML files. This is pretty much what data scrapping is, getting the information you need from HTML. You can get a lot of data from a website like audio files, phone numbers, addresses, etc. To accomplish this task I downloaded BeautifulSoup which is “a toolkit for dissecting a document and extracting what you need” (Crummy). I encourage people to look at tutorials and examples. It is not hard to understand or learn. 
Here is the link if anyone is interested on data scraping: https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/
